Add 2020 stats and community update (#1413)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/write-the-docs-2020-stats.rst

.. post:: Jan 12, 2021
   :tags: stats, year in review, newsletter
   :author: Eric Holscher

Write the Docs 2020 Stats and Community Update
==============================================

> A new year comes with many expectations.

Reviewer: Should we indicate that this is instead of the January newsletter? Also, maybe specify that it's coming from Eric, as Beth usually greets in person..

Hoping for change,
setting new goals,
and feeling optimistic about the fresh year that has just begun.

Sadly this year that optimism has been dashed in record time.
We have written many times throughout 2020 that we hope you're okay,

> and we will have to continue that tradition once more in our inaugural newsletter of 2021.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and we're continuing that tradition once more in our inaugural newsletter of 2021.
```

this reads ever so slightly better to me, YMMV

We hope you're okay,
and we hope that the storm we have been engulfed in will soon pass.

A heartfelt thanks
------------------

> We had a lot of big plans for this year,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We had a lot of big plans for last year,
```

Reviewer 2: WHY NOT BOTH

but most of those had to be put on hold in March as we scrambled to move our community fully online.
Getting to see all the happy faces at our in-person events is one of the largest motivators for people who organize events.
Sadly this year, we weren't able to make that happen.

2020 has shown that the love and care we put into the community will be returned back to us when needed.
When we moved the conferences online,
we were genuinely worried about the health and longevity of Write the Docs.
As we noted in our `ticket choices`_ page for Portland,
we had a lot of outstanding debts and we didn't know how much support we would get with our online conferences.
It was easy to see a worst case scenario where our venues didn't refund us and people didn't support the online events.

We are happy to report that we received overwhelming support from our vendors, sponsors, speakers, team, and attendees:

> * Most of our vendors refunded our down payments in full

Reviewer: Maybe we can add that our live-captions and video broadcasting vendors followed us seamlessly to the virtual format

> * All but 1 of our sponsors stayed with us for our virtual event

Reviewer: Did we get any new sponsors this year, or was it all returning sponsors? could be nice to mention if we got new ones

Reviewer 2: Working on it :-D

Author: This is from last year, people who stuck with us through the in person -> virtual transition.

* Our speakers pulled together to record videos and handle live online Q&A
* Our team pulled together to run virtual events that exceeded our expectations for what those events could be
* Our attendees, most importantly, made our virtual events *feel* like our conferences, with a supportive and generous spirit

2020 has been a hard year,
but we wanted to take this chance to give thanks to those who made 2020 a special year.
We feel incredibly lucky to be able to support this wonderful community,
and we look forward to making 2021 the best year yet,
with your help.

.. _ticket choices: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2020/ticket-choices/

Looking forward
---------------

> One of the largest things we noticed in 2020 was how much more our community needed support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the largest things we noticed in 2020 was how much more support our community needed.
```

As we scrambled to move our events online,

> people were also adjusting to working remote for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
people were also adjusting to working remotely for the first time.
```

We saw lots of activity in our Slack network,

> as people were trying to build community online.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as people were trying to connect online.
```

Meetups slowly adjusted,
trying to move online and keep some momentum going.

Write the Docs itself was able to provide similar value as in the past,
but we didn't have the resources to adjust to the changing world.
The profits from our conferences pay for everything we do,
which constrains our ability to adjust to events as they happen.

We are planning a way for our community to support the organization directly.
We are proud that all the content that Write the Docs produces is free to everyone,
and we don't plan to change that any time soon.
The goal for 2021 is to be able to provide additional support to our community,
paid for by members in that community.

We're still working out the details,
and will be posting a `WEP`_ soon to ask the community for feedback.
We hope that you'll support us in building a community that is better able to support you.

.. _WEP: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/introducing-weps/

Write the Docs Quorum Meetups
-----------------------------

One of the first things we're excited about this year is an evolution of our meetups: Quorum meetups.

> These quarterly, remote, "super" meetups are an hour long and include a presentation by a speaker followed by breakout networking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These quarterly remote "super" meetups are an hour long and include a presentation by a speaker followed by breakout networking.
```

Author: I think the prior reads better to me, though a bit awkward.

* `Virtual Write the Docs West Coast Quorum on Meetup.com <https://www.meetup.com/virtual-write-the-docs-west-coast-quorum/>`_ - For participants in the Pacific (UTC-7) and Mountain (UTC-6) time zones. The first meetup is planned for **March**.

* `Write the Docs Australia on Meetup.com <https://www.meetup.com/Write-the-Docs-Australia/>`_ - We are planning to continue hosting collaborative APAC meetups via our Australia meetup group that are similar in concept.

Events are free and open to all.
Quarterly meetups will typically occur at 7:00p.m. local time on a Monday through Thursday evening.

If you are a local meetup organizer in the these timezones who would like to learn more about what is required to participate,
or are located in EMEA and would like to know if the program expands to your time zones,
contact Alyssa Rock on the Write the Docs Slack network.

You can read more about these meetups in the `quorum meetups GitHub repository`_.

.. _quorum meetups GitHub repository: https://github.com/write-the-docs-quorum/quorum-meetups

> 

Author: TODO: Add a mention of the WTD PDX CFP.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Write the Docs Portland call for proposals
-------------------------------------------------------

We're still accepting `talk proposals`_ about all things docs related for our online Portland conference, April 25-27. Especially if you've not been able to attend due to travel logistics, or if you've not spoken before we'd love to hear your voice. Tell us your ideas by the 25th January, and if accepted, put together a 30 min talk video by the end of March. 

.. _talk proposals: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2021/cfp/

```

Reviewer 2: edit at will
